---
layout: post
title: HF Bicycle Mobile Experiment - Part 1
---
Today I decided to make an HF antenna for my bike. I did an experiment
with this once last year but it was not terribly successful. That
experiment used the <a href="http://www.g4ilo.com/atx.html">ATX
antenna</a>. No contacts were made but I learned something about
grounding.

I decided to use the frame as a ground. <a
href="http://www.qrz.com/callsign/G4AKC">G4AKC</a> says that this can
be improved by tuning the frame. I found that with a variable capacitor
in series with the frame I could adjust for low SWR with the ATX set
up as in the instructions. I can't remember what bands I tried it on.

The primary aim this time was to improve the ground. Last time, I had
a very temporary setup with croc clips to the frame so I decided to
improve it with fixed wires. I cleaned and sanded around a bolt on the
carrier and two brazons on the frame and connected the points with
some mains wire. I also attached a flexible wire to connect to the
antenna system.

While I was pondering how best to connect the aerial and earth with
the very limited selection of BNC parts I had I decided I might as
well make a proper antenna, which would make this easier. I took some
of the sections of the fishing pole I use for SOTA and duct taped them
to the carrier. The longest I thought I could reasonably get away with
was 4m which is what I used. I decided to use the lowest HF band I
could with the given antenna space, as the higher bands seem to be
open far less often, so I decided on a 1/4 wave for the 21MHz band.

I started with 3.5m of wire and found the tuning was way off. I
decided to try and tune it against a good earth so I drove in an earth
stake. This actually made it slightly worse. I then laid out three
radials and tried various combinations before giving up on finding an
improvement. I then started trying to tune to what I had. I had to cut
away quite a lot of wire but got the SWR down to 1.1. This was with
the capacitor in series with the frame.

I tied a SLAB to the carrier and put the FT-817 in the bar bag and set
off for a maiden voyage. The SWR remained constant despite shaking,
moving of antenna and presumably different ground, although I did only
go around the block. I could hear several American stations and one in
Africa but my CQs were not answered. Eventually though, some
unexpected success! I replied to N8RA in Connecticut and received a
(contest) 59. He had no trouble copying my callsign first time so it
must have been a reasonable signal. I tried for a while longer but
with no further contacts so stopped for the day.

<h3>Future Work</h3>
Some ideas:

* Other bands - I think I can fit in 17m and 10m may be useful now too.

* Replace top section of fibreglass and wire with bendy steel
  wire. This should reduce wind resistance, weight and effect of
  crashing into trees.

* Try other earth tuning arrangements. Measure earth current -
  possibly with a clip on ferrite transformer I got from the
  electricity company.

* Physical improvement - replace duct tape. I require a system
  for easy removal, connection and disconnection. Must also be
  weather, oil and dirt proof. Should not reduce load carrying
  capacity of rack - needs to stay out the way of panniers.
