---
layout: post
title: .self
subtitle: On labels, and changing your personal default settings
tags: [life]
---

I've been thinking about identity, that is the things which we consider
ourselves <em>to be</em>. For example, I could say: "I am a geek", "I am an
engineer", and many other things.

Is it a good idea to say things like this? Is it a good idea to have ideas
like this at all? Also, if I use these labels, what should their values be?

My main concern with using these labels is that rather than just describing
me, which could be useful, they could change my behaviour. I'll take
"engineer" as an example here. I have sometimes found myself thinking things
like, "draw something? That is something artists do, I am an engineer, so I
can't". This is of course ridiculous. These sort of labels can be ingrained by
university, which is a good way to illustrate how ridiculous they are. Before
choosing a university course, many people are not sure what they want to
do. The course choice could be a toss up, but then a few years later they
think they can no longer do something they were capable of before university.

Gender is another obvious one. People seem to be very attached to their
gender, leading to things like not doing certain activities or convincing
yourself not to like some design or colour because it is meant to be for
another gender. I remember seeing a program on the BBC where they gave an
identical soft drink to boys and girls in two different bottles - one blue
called Rocket Pop and one pink called Princess Pop. Mostly, the boys preferred
the Rocket Pop and the girls the Princess Pop. What if I decide I can't drink
Princess Pop because I am a man but actually I would otherwise think it tastes
better? I could end up being less happy for no good reason.

What if you give yourself some label of sexual preference and then you fancy
or fall in love with someone who doesn't fit in with this label? This sort of
thing can cause a great deal of unnecessary suffering.

Another reason to be wary of "I am" statements is the effect on the ego. I
don't know much about this really, but my understanding is that some people
and religions think that the ego is a sense of individual existence and being
separate from everything else. This is considered undesirable and some people
try to reduce it or achieve ego death or enlightenment. I suspect that
constantly attaching ideas and descriptions to "I" is only going to increase
ego. As well as avoiding these labels totally, maybe randomly changing the
settings could help to show that they are not immutable or necessarily part of
you.

If you don't mind these labels though, how do you know you've got the right
ones? By the right ones, I mean the ones that make you happiest, or help you
achieve your goals. Have you even thought about them, or did you just take the
defaults?

Hackers spend a long time customising their environment with dotfiles. These
configuration files are carefully customised and curated to create a unique
environment that pleases the inhabitant of the computer system. If you do this
with software, why not yourself, which is far more important.

What are your default settings? Why not try changing them and see what they
do? I've decided to try doing this. Actually, I found I already had done some
before I started to think about it like this, but maybe I should try some
more.

Here are some suggestions for parameters to try adjusting in your .self

- Profession: e.g. engineer, artist. Even without changing jobs, this could be
  experimented with by doing something from some other class, e.g. painting for
  an engineer. Maybe there is also a different way to think about things -
  it's not just about what you do. Maybe I could try to judge things by their
  aesthetic appeal, rather than their functionality. I've been trying to
  answer questions like "what do you do" with a more direct description of
  what I have been doing recently, rather than a possibly quite inaccurate
  label I adopted some time ago.

- Subcultural group memberships: e.g. geek, goth, hippie. (If you really want
  to use these at all.)

- Social strata: Dress and mannerisms, and other factors may identify you as
  "middle class", "working class", or something like that.

- Religion: Most people get this randomly assigned based on the religion of
  their parents. That's clearly a setting worth investigating.

- Gender: I am physically male. This is presumably what led my parents and
  others to assign me the masculine gender before I knew what this was. Now I
  am old enough to think about it maybe I should try some other settings.

- Intelligence: Placebos have been shown to improve test results. If you label
  yourself as stupid, or bad at maths, changing the label could help.

- Nationality: Maybe try picking one at random, or probably better, try to
  have none at all.

- Diet: Depending on your randomly assigned country and religion, your default
  diet may be omnivore, vegetarian, or have some other restrictions. Have you
  thought about the ethical and health implications of each option? What about
  just trying something different? I was omnivorous by default and then
  switched to a vegan diet, for example.

There are other things you can change too, like lifestyle and living
arrangements, which are not so clearly "I am" relationships, but still often
considered a part of who you are. The difference between "traveller" and
"homeless" is not in where you sleep, I think it is about how you see
yourself, and if you are happy.

In summary, I would like to encourage you to experiment with what really makes
you happy, and not just accept the defaults you are given.
