---
layout: post
title: Free Food
tags: [life, travel]
---

This post is about getting food for free, that is without spending money, but
actually I mean more than that by free food. Food is the key thing which keeps
many people in slavery. You need it to live (although some people dispute
that) and the current system is set up such that you need to pay for it. This
requires money, which in turn requires you to participate in the economic
system which binds people to jobs they don't want and generally makes people
so many people miserable. When you know how to get food for free, you become
more free.

I don't claim that the methods I outline in this post will fix the system or
work if everyone were to do this, but for now they can at least help some of
us.

Skipping
--------

In Europe this is called recycling, in America, dumpster diving. The best
places to go are supermarkets at closing time. Huge amounts of good food are
thrown away every day. This might be because an apple is bruised or a banana is
deemed too brown. Much of it will be food that has reached its best before
date. Apart from the fact that these dates are usually very conservative and
therefore the food will probably be good for some time, if you go at closing
time you get food which was on the shelves only minutes earlier, so it may not
even go out of date until the next day. You can live on entirely on what you
find in these bins.

There are some things you will very rarely find, like dried foods and things
with a long shelf life. It's nice to be able to buy these things, but it's a
luxury.

Growing
-------

If you are settled, you can of course grow food. Not much good if you are
travelling though.

Foraging
--------

Depending on where you are, you may be able to find fruit, mushrooms, and
other foods growing wild.

Asking in Restaurants and Shops
-------------------------------

This is similar to skipping, but you get it before it is thrown in the
bin. Going to bakeries at closing time is often very worthwhile. Some
restaurants will also cook lots of food that if unsold gets thrown away.

Charity
-------

There are charities which give food to "the homeless" (whatever that
means). Some temples and churches do this. It is not something I really like
because, unlike skipping, the food has been paid for by someone. I'm not
really comfortable with the idea of other people buying food for me. If you
need it though, you should know these places are there.
