---
layout: post
title: Fruit is not Allowed
tags: [vegan, food, cancun]
---

"Fruit is not allowed", the customs officer said dissaprovingly. This seems
true not only of imports, but generally in Cancun. There are plenty of small
shops but they pretty much just sell crisps and sugary drinks. I ate mostly
sugar and felt sick.

I quickly gave up on finding vegan food and tried for vegetarian. I ordered
some quesadillas after carefull study of the menu and dictionary, but still
got meat. I ate it anyway. I think not to would be adding insult to injury. I
wouldn't be very impressed if someone killed me for food and then decided to
throw me in the bin instead. I felt sick.

Tortilla vegetariano for breakfast, served with refried beans. Interesting,
but eggs and cheese. Felt a bit sick.

Then I found Walmart. Here fruit is allowed - it is quite overwhelming. It's
stacked high - it would crush you if it fell over - and is all perfect. Every
apple is shiny and without blemish, and lit by green light. They must be
genetically engineered, irradiated, and coated with insectiside. Nevertheless,
I imagine the scale of the place and quantity of food could make a hungy
person cry.

The last time I tried to use a McDonalds drive through (in Penrith (England))
they wouldn't let me. Here they did. McDonalds was a theme on my last cycle tour
I wanted to avoid this time, but it seem to have happened already. I wanted
food without having to leave my bike. I didn't want to try the street vendors
because I have plenty of things to do for the moment without being sick. I
tried to order a vegeburger but they didn't understand. It was not the
langugae, I tried Spanish and English, they did not understand the concept of
not eating meat. I ordered chicken and felt nothing. It tasted of nothing, was
probably mostly breadcrumbs. I need to get out of here.

My water bottle holder does not work well for coffee cups. There is another
gadget to rig up.