---
layout: post
title: Panama
tags: [panama, cyclewho, cycling]
location: 9.171076 -79.652252
---

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/mm0hai/9497284563" title="This is the
road to Panama, from Costa Rica by River, on Flickr"><img
src="https://farm3.staticflickr.com/2880/9497284563_daa58c8d21_z.jpg"
width="640" height="480" alt="This is the road to Panama, from Costa
Rica"></a>

Rural Panama was not much different from the rest of Central America, except
for the quality of the roads. I cycled on a perfectly smooth new road past
palm thatched bamboo huts, where I stopped for water at one point. I think the
roads are paid for with canal money - container ships pay a lot to transit the
canal, from $50,000 to $250,000 said one blog. One other difference was the
coffee, which I saw growing in the mountains near the border with Costa Rica.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/mm0hai/9497538435" title="Coffee! by
River, on Flickr"><img
src="https://farm6.staticflickr.com/5517/9497538435_5a3c162f7f_z.jpg"
width="640" height="480" alt="Coffee!"></a>

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/mm0hai/9500355634" title="The Dreaded
Highlander, having lunch by River, on Flickr"><img
src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7354/9500355634_d32964f223_z.jpg"
width="640" height="480" alt="The Dreaded Highlander, having lunch"></a>

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/mm0hai/9500374334" title="Panama
Numberplate on Bike by River, on Flickr"><img
src="https://farm4.staticflickr.com/3740/9500374334_5efb598d3e_z.jpg"
width="480" height="640" alt="Panama Numberplate on Bike"></a>

It was properly into the rainy season now. I cycled in the rain because
otherwise it would be hard to get anywhere. My bike didn't like it. The chain
would start squeaking after a shower, and after two heavy ones the pedals
started making noises. I think the rain had washed the grease out of the pedal
bearings. I want to get new pedals anyway - these ones are metal, and cut up
my legs. They are also generally poor quality.

I just tried to get along the road as quickly as possible. The most remarkable
thing about the Panamaericana here was how unremarkable it was. It was boring
and moderately dangerous the whole way until the city.

Entering Panama City was however quite special. Before I could do that I had
to cross the canal, on the Bridge of the Americas. I had read you are not
allowed to cycle on this because they think it is too dangerous, but noone
stopped me. It was rather exciting, and I was happy at the significance of
crossing the canal. I meant I was near enough done with this continent, and
ready to go to South America. The bridge did seem dangerous, but after days of
traffic passing me too close I had given up caring about it. There was nothing
I could do - either the traffic would see me and pass or it wouldn't, so I
just had to trust in fate. I cycled with one hand and took photos.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/mm0hai/9504670172" title="Bridge of the
Americas by River, on Flickr"><img
src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7286/9504670172_0e632f5440_z.jpg"
width="640" height="480" alt="Bridge of the Americas"></a>

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/mm0hai/9500026284" title="DSCF5262 by
River, on Flickr"><img
src="https://farm3.staticflickr.com/2845/9500026284_726e0bc768_z.jpg"
width="640" height="480" alt="DSCF5262"></a>

I celebrated by going to a fancy vegetarian restaurant with comically small
portions in Casco Viejo, the old part of town which is being done up from
squats which are falling apart to an expensive area for tourists. I ended up
spending weeks in Casco, looking for a boat, relaxing, and generally not doing
very much.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/mm0hai/9520979330" title="Panama City
and Palms by River, on Flickr"><img
src="https://farm3.staticflickr.com/2859/9520979330_233e8af269_z.jpg"
width="640" height="480" alt="Panama City and Palms"></a>

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/mm0hai/9500018266" title="Panama City
at Night, from Casco Viejo by River, on Flickr"><img
src="https://farm4.staticflickr.com/3751/9500018266_15f4095e29_z.jpg"
width="640" height="480" alt="Panama City at Night, from Casco Viejo"></a>

Eventually I set off on the bike again. I wanted to have a go at hitching a
lift to Colombia, because the tourist charters are so expensive. The road to
the Caribbean coast was just a chore, but the result was a pretty good tick -
I have now cycled from the Pacific to Atlantic oceans in a day! I stayed in
Portobelo for a few days, in a truly disgusting hospedaje I had seen a <a
href="http://www.crazyguyonabike.com/doc/page/?o=1&page_id=296930&v=WX">previous
cyclist</a> had stayed in. There could be a game of guessing the country by the
disgusting hostels. I asked around about boats, but didn't get any good
results. I also tried at Puerto Lindo briefly, but decided I would just pay. I
went back to Panama City while I waited for the next good option on the web.

I booked, and got a bus back to Puerto Lindo to board the Santana for
Cartagena.
