---
layout: post
title: gibt es einen buddhistischen Tempel in der Nähe?
tags: [life, religion, buddhism, cyclewho]
---

ABOUT: This buddhist centre, some of the ideas it gave me, and how it relates to buddhism generally.

I noticed this centre when I first came to San Cristobal. I am now living very
close to it so there was no excuse not to have a look.

They have a "guided meditation" each day at 10am. On Thursday I went to it.

It was not what I was expecting. The type of meditation I have encountered
before is about presence, silently concentrating on the senses and body. This
session was mostly chanting with a few shorter periods of silence to
contemplate what was said.

It was surprisingly like a christian church service. There was the equivalent
of a hym book for the chants or songs, and it followed a set program from the
book. The main difference was there were some periods of silence to
contemplate.

The order of service if you can call it that was from a book by the founder of
this type of Buddhism. I read the book afterwards in a couple of hours and
then reserched it more on the web.

I discovered that this place was of the New Kadampa Tradition (NKT), founded by
Geshe Kelsang Gyatso in England in 1991 and now based in the Lake District.

This form of Buddhism seems to be somewhat controversial, and has some aspects
I do not like and which are somewhat suggestive of a cult. It seems people are
taught only to read the books by Kelsang Gyatso, and I noticed in the centre
all the books were by him.

The only book that did not have his name on the cover was by the Western
Shugden Society, which seems to be mostly run by Kadampa Buddhists. The
worship of Shugden seems to be a controversial issue. The Dalai Lama banned
it, but Kelsang Gyatso supported it.

I also found a story about a monk being financially exploited, and there are
websites for "recoverers". I don't know if these indicate systematic problems,
but the fact that there is an official site which tries to defend against
various accusations does not look good.

In any case, whatever the organisation is like, it does not matter unless the
teachings are good. Kelsang Gyatso seems to be distinguised by designing a
clearly organised 21 step meditation plan, or lamrim in Tibetan, which I read
in one of his books. I don't know how much of this is specific to NKT and how
much is common to other Buddhist traditions.

Many of the steps seem like a good idea, but there were a few I really didn't
like.

The first point is entitled "Our precious human life" but in reality it is
designed to instil fear!

> "This feeling of fear is the object of our meditation. We then hold this
without forgetting it; our mind should remain on this feeling of fear
single-pointedly for as long as possible."

The fear he is talking about is that of a lower rebirth. I should explain
samsara - the idea that we are trapped in a continous cycle of death and
rebirth. This is common to many religouns. Birth can be in any of six reals -
God, demi-god, human, animal, hungry ghost, and hell. Buddhas have escaped
from this cycle, and the idea is that by following the lamrim, you can acheive
this.

Christian Heaven and Hell seems like a special case of samsara where the
number of births is exactly two, or possibly three if purgatory counts as
one. Churches use fear of hell as a mothed of controlling people. It seems
here that fear of lower rebirth is being used to convice people to follow this
path.

I don't like this idea of instilling fear because it is not something
inherently good and it can be abused to control people. Is it really necessary
to invent something for people to fear? Are there not enough problems readily
apparent that we can fix? I can certainly see things in my life which I could
improve with some Buddhist teachings without having to fear hell.


Meditation on death.

> "I shall definitely die. There is no way to prevent my body from
finally decaying."

He claims that it is neccesary to have a spiritual teacher - it is the only
way. They also seem a bit obsessed about the lineage of teachers - students
becoming teachers and continuing the line. I think they see this line leading
back to Buddha as something to establish their legitimicy.

I do not claim that it is not helpful to have a teacher, but I object to the
idea that it is absolutely necessary. Where did these teachers get their
knowledge from? It must be discovereable. The Buddha did not have a Dharma
teacher. Yes, he probably had several teachers he learned from, but he moved
between them and thought for himself to develop his ideas. He did not swear
loyalty to one guru who told him never to read the books of someone else.



the only, you must.

Portrait of founder - like a dictatorship.
If as Kalki says of oaths, this gives power, it matters a lot.

How do they know samsara is true?

Fear and death - they would have you meditate on fear of lower birth,
therefore you must go running to Buddha for safety. Don't fear to start
with. Go to Buddha to learn and love. You do not need fear to love.

Maybe you won't die. Is this programming? You should not waste time
though. Can you not focus without thinking of death?

The only way to give you life meaning? No, I can do great things without spirituality.

Like Church - singing together, prayers. Sitting in lines, looking to an altar.
Holy water (offering).

Money - retreats they are selling are about 100 GBP a day. I pay about 75 GBP a month in rent.

Is spiritual lineage necessary? Gurus? Why not learn yourself?
It seem the answer varies in different buddhist traditions.

Checklist to select a good guru?

Meaning of life:
From my precept / first principle / given: To be happy.

Maybe is academic whether itmatters to help others when it makes no difference to you, because there is so much sufering you cannot help all. So you can use all your time helping people and enjoying it so making you happy. What if non helping activites make you more happy than this though?

Maybe the principe is wrong and should be making everyone happy.

Joy v. Happiness.


Questions for Kadampa:
You will die is a fact?
You are teaching fear. Is this really a good thing?
Need for a teacher. Did Buddha have a guru?

This seems like a good guide on the selection of a guru:
http://viewonbuddhism.org/spiritual_teacher_guru.html

The Kadampa lamrim
http://kadampa.org/en/buddhism/stages-of-the-path

"Unbroken lineage"

"We need to practise Buddha’s teachings because there is
no other real method to solve human problems."  Geshe Kelsang Gyatso, "Modern Buddhism".

Nyancat is Vishnu, works the same as Hare Krishna?

How about fixing real problems, not made up ones? Does a religion need to
invent a hell or something for you? Why not just fix your life now. Is that
not enough? Otherwise it seems like a method of control.


"Driven only by fear, do men go for refuge to many places — to hills, woods, groves, trees and shrines.
Such, indeed, is no safe refuge; such is not the refuge supreme. Not by resorting to such a refuge is one released from all suffering.
He who has gone for refuge to the Buddha, the Teaching and his Order, penetrates with transcendental wisdom the Four Noble Truths — suffering, the cause of suffering, the cessation of suffering, and the Noble Eightfold Path leading to the cessation of suffering.
This indeed is the safe refuge, this the refuge supreme. Having gone to such a refuge, one is released from all suffering."
— Dhammapada 188-192, seen in wikipedia.



