---
layout: post
title: PEMEX
subtitle: Essence of Love
tags: [cycling, mexico, cyclewho]
---

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/mm0hai/8387837666/" title="PEMEX"><img
src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8361/8387837666_ed618aa2b2_z.jpg"
width="640" height="480" alt="PEMEX Station"></a>

Before I really started cycling here in Mexico, a couple of people told me
they camped and hammocked at PEMEX, the only brand of petrol station I have
seen so far in Mexico. I thought that sounded a bit crazy but that is because
I had only toured in Europe before.

In Europe, I found I could camp almost anywhere by the side of the road. There
might be a forest, or a field, a picnic spot, a public park or even a
campsite. Here the roads I have seen so far are lined by ditches and fences
unbroken for miles. The slopes to the ditches are often very steep, the
ditches quite wide and full of water and then there is a barbed wire fence on
the other side. Getting the bike across this would be very difficult. Getting
self over would be possible, but would involve getting wet, muddy, and
possibly injured. There are venomous snakes around here, ticks and maybe
leeches. It generally is not something I want to do.

Last night I found a small space between the road and the water. I stopped
there because I saw some flatter ground. I was not the first to notice it
though - there was an old camp fire, and lots of rubbish. I moved down from
the road a bit for cover from sight. I thought it would be better not to be
seen because that was my only defence against robbers. Down here though was
where people had been using as a toilet and rubbish dump.

In the morning I had to get the bike back up the slope, which was not
easy. Then I spent probably spent half an hour stopping and trying to work out
what was making a scraping noise as the wheels turned. Eventually I found a
piece of wire stuck in the back tyre was scraping on the inside of the
mudgaurd. This and the sticks that jammed in the gears are more reasons to
avoid these sites.

If you want a flat site with short grass (to avoid snakes) it seems like the
only option usually is to ask at someones house to camp in the garden. This
can be quite successful - I did this the night before and was also given a
meal. Some people at the Rainbow told me they had done this and it happened to
be the occasion of the Granny's 101st birthday. A pig was slaughtered for them
and they were basically forced to stay for two days eating and drinking.

The other option though is a petrol station. Now that I have seen one it makes
sense. I'm camping now on a large area of flat, short grass, about 20 meters
from the hardstanding. I can see my bike locked near the pumps, lit and under
cover from rain. There is a toilet, sink for washing, food and water right
outside. There is also a useful amount of light but not so much as to stop
sleep.

In Europe, I would avoid a petrol station as noisy and possibly dangerous and
camp somewhere quiet. I also think of them as expensive and of course
supporting an oil based system. But now I look out of the tent and the PEMEX
sign is like a marker of an oasis. This and the glowing traffic cone landing
lights, are beautiful.