---
layout: post
title: Honduras
tags: [cyclewho, cycling, life, honduras]
location: 14.779530 -87.182007
---

Honduras is a funny country. I couldn't find its identity. Most countries have
some stereotypical things about them that you can think of, like clothes, or
food, or music, or some quality of the people. I had no idea about Honduras
before I got there, and I still didn't when I left. It seems to be some sort
of generic Central America, with a great <a
href="/blog/2013/05/24/USA-Calling.html">influence from the USA</a>, and not
much of its own. It was however the home to some of the most exciting and
dangerous riding I did.

San Pedro Sula has at least some years been rated the most violent city in the
world. It is controlled by drug cartels. Someone I met later who had to go to
hospital there told of how he was asked to sit on a trolley which was covered
in blood. Apparently the staff thought this was pretty much normal, because it
was full of people who had been shot. The Daily Mail says there are 3.3
murders per day, and will show you pictures of this if you care to
search. Riding through the city is not really something to be recommended, but
there isn't much choice but to cross it somehow.

I wanted to make sure I got there before dark, so I left early and didn't muck
about. Approaching the city I started to see the cars with blacked out windows
and no number plates. Some are often fitted with bulletproof glass, which I saw
advertised. The driving standard was not good. I got the impression from the
way I was passed that everyone just drove as if I was not even there. Several
times I would have been hit if I had not ducked out the way at the last
minute. I heard that to take out a hit on someone here costs about $25, so the
value of my life was less than what it might cost someone to fix some
scratched paint on their car.

On the outskirts of town I stopped in an Honduran fast food type place for a
second breakfast / mid-morning meal and was amused to see a gringo who looked
pretty much exactly like a CIA agent from a Bond film. I doubt a group of
three middle aged men, each arriving here in their own vehicle to meet in an
unnoticeable place on the edge of town were on holiday, anyway.

In town, a car full of girls were shouting and taking photos of me. Apparently
the girls like gringos here, or possibly people crazy enough to cycle.

I found my prebooked hostel fairly easily. It was surrounded by a high wall
topped with spikes, razor wire and an electric fence. They told me this is an
affluent residential area. Leaving the hostel meant taking a taxi to the mall,
which was a relatively safe place where only rich people could go. There were
armed guards of course. The banks had lockers outside for you to put your
pistol in before you entered, and a few larger ones if you had a shotgun.

I read a spoof story about the opening of the city mall, in which the people
stormed it and cut up the benches for fire wood. I can almost imagine that
happening - just up the road I had seen people carrying bundles of wood on the
back of their bikes.

One day I decided I wanted to see this city, not just the American fast food
chains that lined the circunvalacion I rode down. I cycled into centre of
town. On the way I saw a naked man kneeling with his hands in the gutter. At
first thought it was some sort of extreme begging, but he was facing the
traffic, and was ignored. Maybe a yogi? But why practice yoga in the gutter?

I had some idea about wanting to sit in a cafe in the main square but there
was only a McDonald's there too. Money changers and aggressive "Professional
Photographers" stalked in the zocalo.

The next city was Tegucigalpa, the capital. Here it was ok to walk outside, in
some areas, but not at night, so more taxis to Pizza Hut, which has a salad
bar which will feed a touring cyclist for $5. The approach to the city though,
was the most exciting and dangerous cycling I have ever done.

From San Pedro Sula, I had to cross mountain passes, maybe 1500m of climbing at
a glace at the profile. This gave a long fast descent, which continued down
from the mountains into the city. Here there was extreme high speed traffic
dodging including overtaking at least two motorbikes, and avoiding the wheel
sized manholes which had their covers stolen for scrap metal. When it levelled
out, I was then navigating back streets in one of the most dangerous cities in
the world, all under time pressure to make sure I had somewhere secure to
sleep before it got dark.

In La Ceiba, I came the closest to being robbed (that I know of). Someone
tried to get my camera out of its bag while I carried it, but he was very ham
fisted and I felt the tugging. Here was also where I found myself surrounded
by three armed guards.

I went to a mall to buy some new sandals because my last ones had fallen
apart. I was sitting on a bench researching it on my phone, when one of them
objected that I wasn't allowed to be there without shoes on. At first I
decided I didn't understand him. Then he went and got two of his mates. So now
there I was, barefoot sitting on a bench, and surrounded by three armed men. I
considered seeing what would happen if I just sat there - a protest against
the ridiculousness of it - but as I happened to be there to buy sandals anyway
I decided to go and do that now. So I remembered how to speak Spanish, and
they agreed to let me buy some, but not on my own. I was escorted by one of
the guards to the shoe shop, and he waited outside until I came out with them
on. Of course noone would actually tell me why.

On <a href="/blog/2013/06/07/Utila.html">Utila</a>, one of the Bay Islands of
Honduras, I learned to scuba dive. I wouldn't really consider this Honduras
though. It was British until quite recently, and is only really officially
Honduran. A Honduran I spoke to in La Ceiba said if he wanted to get the ferry
there, he would be questioned first, under the assumption that his purpose was
to rob the gringos.

This was the same guy who tried to befriend me and walked around town with me
for about an hour before asking for money. He kept asking what I wanted -
weed, drugs, women, ... He seemed frustrated that I didn't really want
anything - I suppose this is what the consumer society is all about too - make
people want things so you can control them - or in his case make some
profit. At least he did help me by telling me not to go for a walk down the
beach, which was going into a particularly bad area controlled by the crack
dealers and pimps.

I did a a river rafting trip one day, which turned out to be rather more
serious that I expected of a typical organised tourist activity. Maybe because
I was on my own the guide didn't hold back. It involved a a non-trivial partly
overhanging rock climb out of the river, to a ledge he told me was 11 meters
above the water, and then jumping into the rapids. My heart really was
pounding before I did this, but really I had no choice - I certainly couldn't
climb down - I only just made it up, and there was no other way down. This was
not an old lady tour as it appeared in the brochure.

Honduras was also a country of buckets of water. Buckets for showering by
pouring it over your head, and buckets for flushing the toilet. The showering
is actually really good - better than a conventional one because you get so
much more water in one go, but I didn't much like the toilet flushing this
way. Before I had worked out this was what was done, I did a jobby in a
restaurant and couldn't flush it. They had given me some food for free "a
present", so I thought I would be leaving them a present in return, but later
realised there was a barrel of water outside.

Honduras is the country where I first encountered bedbugs, lack of basic
plumbing, US fast food beside starving beggars, and some fear at what I think was
an actually real threat of violence, but it also has islands also look like this,

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/mm0hai/8908097643/" title="Water Cay
from Boat by mm0hai, on Flickr"><img
src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3747/8908097643_279a18f871_z.jpg"
width="640" height="480" alt="Water Cay from Boat"></a>

and rivers like this for swimming,

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/mm0hai/9001628671/" title="DSCF4872 by
mm0hai, on Flickr"><img
src="http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5446/9001628671_4b2c3d737a_z.jpg"
width="480" height="640" alt="DSCF4872"></a>

in which the locals also bathe and wash their clothes, presumably because they
have no other choice.