---
layout: post
title: 'Year in Review: 2017'
tags: [life, boat, sailing, travel, sweden, denmark, germany]
---

I have not been blogging for ages, so I think once a year post might be the
new target. Here is 2017.

I began the year feeling quite sick in the tower that is the Hamburg Radisson,
which I was forced into after vomiting on the floor of the congress
centre. The original plan was to hitchhike to Berlin after the party and
couchsurf, but I wasn't up to that, and this was the only place that had any
rooms free on no notice at New Year. It was also quite convenient. :) I felt
better after the first night but got worse again, possibly because of trying
too hard at breakfast - but I had to make an effort as it cost more than I
might typically spend on food for a week. We also amused ourselves by ordering
the fanciest pillows from the pillow menu (yes, apparently a pillow menu is a
thing), which were delivered with a salute.

After my annual CCC congress holiday in Hamburg, I returned to this winter's
home of Gran Canaria and toured the island some more. I made my first visit to
Gui Gui, the hidden hippie beach. It was worth going. Pretty windy and wetter
than I would like though. Had a good spa day of massage with sand. :) There
were puppies and kittens! The mother dog took the puppies for walks on the
beach without any humans involved - they lived at a house further inland. Also
explored more caves around the island, did some walking.

<img src="https://farm5.staticflickr.com/4627/27892873099_93e4781689_z.jpg"
width="640" height="480" alt="Puppies!">

<img src="https://farm5.staticflickr.com/4613/39640547332_6fc7f1e4ac_z.jpg"
width="640" height="480" alt="Sunset at Gui Gui">

<img src="https://farm5.staticflickr.com/4661/39671563251_b684d833e5_z.jpg"
width="640" height="480" alt="Shelter at Gui Gui">

<img src="https://farm5.staticflickr.com/4720/25799608568_283e3a3128_z.jpg"
width="640" height="480" alt="Bicycle not made for two">

<img src="https://farm5.staticflickr.com/4769/39671217291_016604d132_z.jpg"
width="360" height="640" alt="Caveman with Fire">

Went to Scotland for the rest of the winter / spring, where I didn't do much
until it was time to go back to Sweden, with some essential supplies.

<img src="https://farm5.staticflickr.com/4622/25722005958_58cfc83db5_z.jpg"
width="480" height="640" alt="Stocking up on Vittles from Blighty">

There was plenty to do on the boat. Painting the keel and antifouling
everything. This was made harder by the temperature - the paints needed
minimum 5C or more. I think the vactan needed 15C to work properly, or at
least 10C. While trying to sort this out, it was snowing. We managed, just, by
building a heat tent around the keel.

<img src="https://farm5.staticflickr.com/4748/39564004672_2d94a5316a_z.jpg"
width="640" height="480" alt="Boat in Snow">

Lots of other jobs in the boat - I think I'll post about that separately.

While working on the boat, we lived in a tent nearby. Sleeping on the boat at
the yard was not allowed, and would also be hard with the state of it
sometimes. There was snow on the tent.

<img src="https://farm5.staticflickr.com/4741/25722901078_3b0b7b710f_z.jpg"
width="640" height="480" alt="Winter home in Stockholm">

Eventually we launched, and then lifted out again to fix a leak, and then
launched again, and finally left Stockholm.

<img src="https://farm5.staticflickr.com/4700/39593187301_67edc7fcc4_z.jpg"
width="640" height="360" alt="Launching (2017)">

<img src="https://farm5.staticflickr.com/4656/39601163952_9e76827d65_z.jpg"
width="640" height="480" alt="Leaving Stockholm">

I enjoyed the archipelago, particularly an island with a wood fired sauna that
was open to the public, with a good view over the sea. We went out every so
often over a period of hours to check on how the sunset was getting on. It got
redder for a while, then started getting lighter again.

<img src="https://farm5.staticflickr.com/4664/24762580697_d060d9a171_z.jpg"
width="640" height="480" alt="Tied to an island">

<img src="https://farm5.staticflickr.com/4695/38922900804_5b12c3c7ab_z.jpg"
width="640" height="480" alt="Sunset in the Stockholm Archipelago">

<img src="https://farm5.staticflickr.com/4623/39631231301_d50da42c4b_z.jpg"
width="640" height="480" alt="Dragets kanal">

Generally learned how to sail the boat and how to tie up to islands in the
Baltic style. The water was very smooth in the archipelago, so we didn't
really get our first taste of waves until we went to Gotland.

<img src="https://farm5.staticflickr.com/4656/25761100178_4120c11b22_z.jpg"
width="640" height="480" alt="Approaching Bornholm at the start of a gale">

<img src="https://farm5.staticflickr.com/4650/25760963368_5e442f83d7_z.jpg"
width="640" height="480" alt="Fire at a gapahuk on Öland">

<img src="https://farm5.staticflickr.com/4604/27854643739_6e4d5b5c40_z.jpg"
width="640" height="480" alt="Approaching Kalmar at about 1 kt">

<img src="https://farm5.staticflickr.com/4745/38924189744_e978796105_z.jpg"
width="640" height="480" alt="Tandem tour, Bornholm">

After Gotland we went to Öland, Bornholm, and Rügen. We tried and failed to
get to Poland after that. A strong wind was coming from out destination and we
made very bad progress with the rolled up genoa. Really need to get a working
jib and storm sails. Instead we went round Rügen. After Kiel I was on my own,
and it was getting on for the end of the season, so I looked for somewhere
close for the winter. I would have like to stay in Kiel, but the monopoly
harbours do not provide electricity in the evening or night during the
winter. Seems they really don't want you to stay on your boat. Instead I took
the boat along the canal to Rendsburg. Rendsburg is super boring, but good for
the boat as they have a bubble marina to try and stop the boat being damaged
by ice. I enjoyed motoring along the canal on my own. Didn't handle tying up
in the locks very elegantly, but I managed it.

<img src="https://farm5.staticflickr.com/4704/25791302618_2b3274121a_z.jpg"
width="640" height="480" alt="Ship on Kiel Canal">

<img src="https://farm5.staticflickr.com/4702/38954513274_40051dafb2_z.jpg"
width="640" height="480" alt="Rendsburg RVR">

Visited Edinburgh for Christmas, which is something I've not done for a long
time. Somehow felt like it this year. Generally felt like facing winter rather
than avoiding it.

Wasn't sure if I'd go to congress because I was a bit tired of it after going
for four years, but I finally decided to go in the end when discovered a
friend would be there I hadn't seen for some time. It was a good decision, to
return to society a bit and talk to more people after mostly hermiting
recently. I felt better after it, even though it was not as good as previous
years and I didn't much like the Leipzig Messe. "Je Suis CCH", as a sticker
said.

<img src="https://farm5.staticflickr.com/4754/38766438045_90a79e0ae2_z.jpg"
width="640" height="480" alt="CCL Leipzig">

<img src="https://farm5.staticflickr.com/4706/38766443805_88aa5f61a4_z.jpg"
width="640" height="480" alt="Teahouse, books, big cat blanket">

I got back to the boat in time for fireworks over the lake.

<img src="https://farm5.staticflickr.com/4749/39633054542_f35bb9d787_z.jpg"
width="640" height="480" alt="Fireworks over Rendsburg">
