---
layout: page
title: Frequently Asked Questions of a Bicycle Tourist
subtitle: Questions asked in Central America
tags: [cyclewho, cycling]
date: 21 Aug 2013
---

### Is that a solar panel?

Yes. It is a 15W monocrystaline panel.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/mm0hai/9259347194/" title="Steep road. Pulled bike up. by mm0hai, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5549/9259347194_02bd4e6c4a_z.jpg" width="640" height="480" alt="Steep road. Pulled bike up."></a>

### What is it for?

It charges my laptop, phone, camera batteries, lights, and anything else USB I
might plug into it. It doesn't drive the bike, which is entirely pedal
powered. I bought the panel on ebay in the UK, and made the mounting for my
bike and the battery charger.

### Where did you get the bike / gear?

I have had the bike for many years. It came with me from Scotland on the
plane. Most other gear, including solar panel, came with me from there too.

###  Do you cycle all the way?

Mostly. I took a bus through most of Costa Rica though, because the rain had
started, the roads are particularly dangerous, and I wanted to get somewhere
on schedule. I also took a bus to hospital one day in Guatemala.

### Is it not hard?

It is hard. It is too hot and humid, often boring, and occasionally a bit
uncomfortable, but actually with a Brooks saddle that is very minor.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/mm0hai/9256567267/" title="DSCF5067 by
mm0hai, on Flickr"><img
src="http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5345/9256567267_619517f3d3_z.jpg"
width="640" height="480" alt="DSCF5067"></a>

### Have you had any problems?

This question is usually getting at things like robbery, mugging, etc, and is
provoked by the almost universal fear of everyone else's country. Some places
are more dangerous than others, but that is not a good reason not to cycle in
them, if you are aware of the situation and mitigate the risk. I have cycled
through the some of the most violent cities in the world, which also have
awful traffic and roads, and not come to any harm. In generally, the world is
much safer than you think. Never listen to the negative opinion of someone who
has never even been to the country in question! If they know it well, then
listen, remember what they said, but take it with a pinch of salt.

You need to be careful about diseases, but once you have taken precautions, it
makes no sense to worry about it. Be aware of malaria, dengue, various biting
insects with other diseases. Avoid damaging the skin, and if you do take it
seriously - keep it clean. Small wounds that can be ignored in Europe can get
infected badly enough to end a cycle tour here. I have not had any problem
with these yet.

### What was your favourite country?

I quite liked cycling in Belize, and the sea and reef are beautiful. One thing
I have learnt though is people's opinion of a country is more a function of
their mood at the time than the place, so you should not trust a small sample
of answers to a question like this. Other people would tell you they hated
Belize. Everywhere has things I like and don't like. It's probably more about
what happens to me than the places.

### What kind of bike do you have?

It is a Giant Coldrock, or maybe was, as I have replaced most of it, and even
the remaining frame has been painted. It is a lightweight mountain bike
without suspension, but with brazeons for front and rear racks. I use almost
smooth tyres. Overall I think this is a very good setup for touring involving
a fair amount of dirt roads.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/mm0hai/9120388576/" title="Volc치n San
Crist칩bal by mm0hai, on Flickr"><img
src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2893/9120388576_18ecf15f35_z.jpg"
width="640" height="480" alt="Volc치n San Crist칩bal"></a>

### How do you carry your stuff?

In four panniers. These are special bags which hang on racks at the sides of
the wheels. I also put some stuff on the rear rack, and in a handlebar bag.

### How far do you cycle in a day?

Between 0 and 140km, I think is the most so far. It depends on where I want to
get that day, the terrain, the weather, the temperature, what jobs need done,
what I feel like...

### What do you eat?

<a class="float-left" href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/mm0hai/9565451544/" title="DSCF4905 by
mm0hai, on Flickr"><img
src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3770/9565451544_d9a97d2cfa.jpg" width="375"
height="500" alt="DSCF4905"></a>

When cycling in remote places, mostly rice, pasta, vegetables, fruit, and
sometimes bread. When there is tasty street food, I sometimes eat that. When
in towns, I am probably more likely to go to a restaurant / comedor than to
cook, except if I am in a hostel, where I can cook good food and not have to
eat chicken, which is the only thing you can get in comedors in many places in
Central America.

Honduras, the Banana Republic, lives up to its name.

### That smells good.

Yes. When I have a kitchen I like to make something tastier. Normally I am
limited to simpler pasta and rice based food on my petrol powered stove.

<hr style="clear: both">

<div id="related">
<h2>Blov Posts about my current tour, "Cycle Who"</h2>
<ul>
  {% for post in site.posts %}
  {% for tag in post.tags %}
  {% if tag == "cyclewho" %}
      <li>
        <span>
          <time datetime='{{post.date | date: "%Y-%m-%d"}}'>
            {{ post.date | date_to_string }}
          </time>
        </span>
       &raquo; <a href="{{ post.url }}">{{ post.title }}</a>
      </li>
  {% endif %}
  {% endfor %}
  {% endfor %}
</ul>
</div>

